.TH git\-upstream 1 2016\-11\-02 "git-upstream v.0.12.1"
.SH NAME
git\-upstream \- git tool to help manage upstream repositories
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B git-upstream
usage: [--version] [-h] [-q | -v] <command> ...

Command-line tool for tracking upstream revisions

optional arguments:
  --version      show program's version number and exit
  -h, --help     show this help message and exit
  -q, --quiet    Suppress additional output except for errors, conflicts with
                 --verbose
  -v, --verbose  Increase verbosity from commands, conflicts with --quiet. May
                 be set more than once.

commands:
  <command>
    import       Import code from specified upstream branch.
    help         Display help about this program or one of its commands.
    supersede    Mark a commit as superseded by a set of change-ids.
    drop         Mark a commit as dropped.

See "help COMMAND" for help on a specific command.

.SH DESCRIPTION
\- What is git\-upstream?

git\-upstream is an open source Python application that can be used to keep in
sync with upstream open source projects, mainly OpenStack.

The main usecase for this tool is for people who are doing active contributions
to repositories that are mirrors of OpenStack repositories, with the intention
that most of those contributions will be submitted to review.openstack.org at
some point.
If you are running a public cloud based on OpenStack, having local changes
needed to use it in your environment, you can use git\-upstream to stay up to
date with the upstream master in a easier way (with respect to using raw git
commands).

git\-upstream provides new git subcommands to support rebasing of local\-carried
patches on top of upstream repositories. It provides commands to ease the use
of git for who needs to integrate big upstream projects in their environment.
The operations are performed using Git commands.

See also README.md, and USAGE.md files.

\- What git\-upstream is not

The name of this tool includes the "git\-" prefix because of the Git naming
convention that a Git subcommand must have. So, as git\-review (usually invoked
with "git review [...]"), this tool can be invoked using "git upstream [...]".
That said, and even if git\-upstream currently uses Change\-Ids, it is not
strictly related to git\-review.
In other words, git\-review can (and most of the time will) be used without even
knowing about git\-upstream existence.

\- How can I contribute to git\-upstream?

Git\-upstream is in OpenStack:

  https://git.openstack.org/openstack/git\-upstream

As for any other OpenStack project, contributions are submitted thru the Gerrit
review system.

To summarise:

1) create a Gerrit account (that is, a launchpad identity)

  click on the "Sign in" link in the upper right corner here:
  https://review.openstack.org

2) install git\-review

  pip install git\-review

3) clone the repo

  git clone https://git.openstack.org/openstack/git\-upstream

4) setup to work with Gerrit

  cd git\-upstream
  git review \-s

  git\-review will ask the username to use to submit changes to
  review.openstack.org, just enter the name you have registered in 1)

5) add cool features or fix nasty bugs

6) create your commit as usual

  git add/rm <...>
  git commit

7) submit the change for review

  git review

That's it. You can see your change signing in to your review.openstack.org
account.

Hold on tight, someone will come in shortly and will review your change!
Meanwhile, you can join the OpenStack community on IRC. There is also a
specific channel for git\-upstream:

  #git\-upstream

If you need help, please join us on IRC!

Before writing new code, it is always a good idea to check if the required
change is already in Gerrit:

  https://review.openstack.org/#/q/project:openstack/git\-upstream,n,z

More info about OpenStack and the Gerrit review process.

https://wiki.openstack.org/wiki/IRC
http://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/Gerrit/git\-review
http://docs.openstack.org/infra/manual/developers.html
http://docs.openstack.org/infra/manual/developers.html#development\-workflow
https://review.openstack.org/#/q/status:open,n,z


.SH OPTIONS
.BR import

usage: 
git-upstream import [-i] [options] [--onto <branch>]
    [--import-branch <import-branch>] [<upstream-branch>]
    [<branches> ...]
git-upstream import [--finish] [options] [--onto <branch>]
    [--import-branch <import-branch>]

Import code from specified upstream branch. Creates an import branch from the
specified upstream branch, and optionally merges additional branches given as
arguments. Current branch, unless overridden by the --into option, is used as
the target branch from which a list of changes to apply onto the new import is
constructed based on the specified strategy. Once complete it will merge and
replace the contents of the target branch with those from the import branch,
unless --no-merge is specified.

positional arguments:
  <upstream-branch>     Upstream branch to import. Must be specified if you
                        wish to provide additional branches.
  <branches>            Branches to additionally merge into the import branch
                        using default git merging behaviour

optional arguments:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  -i, --interactive     Let the user edit the list of commits before applying.
  -d, --dry-run         Only print out the list of commits that would be
                        applied.
  -f, --force           Force overwrite of existing import branch if it
                        exists.
  --finish              Merge the specified import branch into the target
  --merge               Merge the resulting import branch into the target
                        branch once complete
  --no-merge            Disable merge of the resulting import branch
  --search-refs <pattern>
                        Refs to search for previous import commit. May be
                        specified multiple times.
  -s <strategy>, --strategy <strategy>
                        Use the given strategy to re-apply locally carried
                        changes to the import branch. (default: drop)
  --into <branch>       Branch to take changes from, and replace with imported
                        branch.
  --import-branch <import-branch>
                        Name of import branch to use

.BR help

usage: git-upstream help [-h] [<command>]

Display help about this program or one of its commands.

positional arguments:
  <command>   command to display help about

optional arguments:
  -h, --help  show this help message and exit

.BR supersede

usage: git-upstream supersede [-h] [-f] [-u <upstream-branch>]
                              <commit> <change id> [<change id> ...]

Mark a commit as superseded by a set of change-ids. Marked commits will be
skipped during the upstream rebasing process. See also the "git upstream
import" command.

positional arguments:
  <commit>              Commit to be marked as superseded
  <change id>           Change id which makes <commit> obsolete. The change id
                        must be present in <upstream-branch> to drop <commit>.
                        If more than one change id is specified, all must be
                        present in <upstream-branch> to drop <commit>

optional arguments:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  -f, --force           Apply the commit mark even if one or more change ids
                        could not be found. Use this flag carefully as commits
                        will not be dropped during import command execution as
                        long as all associated change ids are present in the
                        local copy of the upstream branch
  -u <upstream-branch>, --upstream-branch <upstream-branch>
                        Search change ids values in <upstream-branch> branch
                        (default: upstream/master)

.BR drop

usage: git-upstream drop [-h] [-a <author>] <commit>

Mark a commit as dropped. Marked commits will be skipped during the upstream
rebasing process. See also the "git upstream import" command.

positional arguments:
  <commit>              Commit to be marked as dropped

optional arguments:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  -a <author>, --author <author>
                        Git author for the mark

.SH AUTHORS
.B git\-upstream
was written by Darragh Bailey <dbailey@hpe.com>.
.SH ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
Thanks to Aleksander Korzynski and Stanisław Pitucha for taking the
original design spec and some basic manual steps and experiementing
with initial implementations.

To Davide Guerri, for picking up a rough python tool and turning it
into something that was actually usable.

Also to Jon Paul Sullivan and Monty Taylor to listening and providing
a sounding board for different approaches.

And finally to Coleman Corrigan among numerous others who acted as
willing guinea pigs for the original manual approach. Hope this
eventually helped save you time and some hair.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR git (1)